doc: `dune pkg` tutorial (#10920)
ocaml/dune: doc/tutorials/dune-package-management/dependencies.md

# Managing Dependencies

The OCaml ecosystem has a wealth of third-party packages that are available for
use. In this section we will look into how to use them with Dune.

## Adding Dependencies

Much like in regular projects, to add a library we need to add a dependency to

> it. For simplicity we'll use the popular `fmt` library as an example, but any

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it. For simplicity we will use the popular `fmt` library as an example, but any
```

Author: Thanks, applied!

our build as a library, as usual:

::::{dropdown} `dune`
:icon: file-code

:::{literalinclude} dependencies/dune
:language: dune
:emphasize-lines: 3
:::

Adding a library dependency to our `dune` file via the `libraries` stanza.

::::

This will allow us to use the `Fmt` module in our OCaml code.

::::{dropdown} `test.ml`
:icon: file-code

:::{literalinclude} dependencies/test.ml
:language: ocaml
:emphasize-lines: 4
:::

We update the code to define an `Fmt.t` pretty-printer for the list of strings
and then use it to print the value.

::::

To build it we just call `build` again.

```sh
$ dune build
```

which will download and install the new dependencies and build our project as
before.

As we see, the code works and uses `fmt` to do the pretty-printing:

```sh
$ dune exec ./test.exe
Hello, OCaml, Rust!
```

### Dependency Constraints

Packages are often only compatible with some versions of dependencies. To
specify a version range, use the regular Dune dependency syntax
used for opam dependencies in the `dune-project` file.

::::{dropdown} `dune-project`
:icon: file-code

:::{literalinclude} dependencies/constraints
:language: dune
:emphasize-lines: 7-8
:::

::::

> This will ensure that the `fmt` package to be installed will be compatible with

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This ensures the `fmt` package to install will be compatible with
```
Can we tighten this sentence and retain accuracy?

our request. These constraints will be taken into account the next time the
package is locked:

```sh
$ dune pkg lock
Solution for dune.lock:
- base-unix.base
- fmt.0.9.0
- ocaml.5.2.0
- ocaml-base-compiler.5.2.0
- ocaml-config.3
- ocamlbuild.0.15.0+dune
- ocamlfind.1.9.6+dune
- topkg.1.0.7
```

The version of `fmt` picked is indeed between `0.6` and `1.0`.

## Removing Dependencies

Given all dependencies are defined in the `dune-project` file, removing a
dependency means to remove the dependency from the `depends` field of your
`dune-project` and relocking the project.

> The new lock directory will not depend on the package anymore and in future
> builds the package will not be accessible as `library` anymore.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The new lock directory will not depend on the package anymore, and in future
builds, the package will not be accessible as `library` anymore.
```
Consider adding these commas for clarity. I had to read the sentence 5x to understand, as I kept reading "in future" as "in the future" rather than "in future builds"
